The goal of this exercise was to get you more
comfortable with managing IAM users and roles.
If you didn't complete all the actions correctly, that's okay,
we just wanted you to get a feel for the interface,
and how some of the tools work.
For your benefit, we will go through the exercise to show how an IAM role can be used in
the AWS console to gain elevated access to resources or data in your account.
In this exercise, you created an IAM user which would have
permissions to assume a specific role in their account.
Let's take a look at that user and its permissions.
So the user you created was cand-c3-iam-user.
Let's take a look at the policy that we created for this user.
As you can see the user only has permissions to assume
a specific role in this AWS account.
The user's policy does not grant any other permissions,
so in order to do their job,
the user will need to assume the IAM role,
so let's go check out this IAM role.
Now, the individual who will assume the role will need to be able to view data in S3.
So as you can see, this role does have the ability to read data from
S3 because it has a policy, AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess.
Looking at the trust relationship,
we can see that the role can only be assumed by a specific account,
and in that case, that's this account.
In order to assume the role,
the user would have been required to log in with multi-factor authentication,
so if they didn't have MFA setup and they logged in,
they would not be able to assume this role.
We can verify the role's functionality by
assuming the role and attempting to view our S3 buckets.
So as a shortcut,
I'm going to use this link to assume the role or switch to the role.
Now that I've assumed the role,
I can go into the S3 page and see if I can see my buckets. It worked.
With this role I'm able to see my S3 buckets.
In this exercise, you've successfully demonstrated how to use
an IAM role to add additional security to the AWS account.